Here is a sample note. Anything in brackets [ ] represent a description of what goes into each section but they do not have to be displayed - this is just for us to reference and for all to understand. 

Abbreviations:
PMHx  = past medical history 
PSHx = past surgical history
FHx = family history 
ED = emergency department 
BP: Blood pressure
HR = heart rate
SPO2 = oxygen saturation
Temp = temperature 
NPO = nothing per os (nothing to eat)

—--------------------------- NOTE STARTS HERE —-------------------

Subjective 
[This section outlines the patients symptoms - anything they said about their condition limiting it to relevant information that confirms or denies the diagnosis] 

The patient is a 45 year old woman with PMHx of diverticulosis, hypertension, type 2 diabetes who presents to the ED with abdominal pain [this is the main complaint that the patient has and why they came to see the doctor]. Her pain started 2 days ago and has continued to worsen since then, prompting a visit to the ED. The pain is associated with nausea, and 2 episodes of non-bloody, non-bilious emesis. The pain is located in the left lower quadrant of the abdomen and radiates to the groin. She has had diarrhea for the past day. [This is more information that was collected from the patient that  helps rule in and rule out conditions - an opportunity here to summarize casual inference and counter casual inference some way]. She denies any fevers, chills, chest pain, shortness of breath, changes in her urine, weight loss or loss of appetite [ this is called a review of systems ROS, which is basically a part of the history where you ask a lot of questions for yes or no answers]. 

On arrival to the ED her vital signs are as follows: BP 120/40, HR 100, SPO2 100% Temp 98.7 and complains of left lower quadrant pain. She is stable but appears uncomfortable [this comes from physical exam – which idk if we have a mechanism for in our current system - but this is good perhaps this is the only thing physicians could fill out since we need them to make a physical assessment ]. 

PMHx
Diverticulosis
Hypertension 
Type 2 diabetes

PSHx
Right knee replacement [as you can see sometimes the information you get is not relevant to the diagnosis but must still be included in a note in some way]

FHx
None

Medications 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Metformin 

Allergies
None

Objective 

Physical Exam: 
General:
Head and Neck: 
Chest:
Lungs: 
Abdomen:
Extremities: 
Neuro:
Psych:

Labs


Imaging 


Assessment [here you summarize the encounter including presentation and data that has evidence of why you arrived at a most likely diagnosis as well as why you dont think is something else - basically summarizing your thinking process] 
The patient is a 45 year old female with hx of diverticulosis and hypertension who presented to the ED with 2 days of abdominal pain, nausea and emesis. Her clinical presentation, including history, physical exam, laboratory findings and imaging studies are most consistent with diverticulitis [final diagnosis here]. Given her clinical stability and imaging findings, it is unlikely that the patient has perforated diverticulitis at this time [here you may list other diagnoses that you are ruling out and concerned about and why]. We have the following recommendations: 

Plans [ here you give a bullet list of plans that need to happen to treat the patient] 
Admit to medicine  [this should come first - it is what you do with the patient from that point onward : admit to hospital, admit to intensive care unit, discharge home]
Start ceftriaxone/ flagyl
NPO 
Serial abdominal exams
Continue home medications: hydrochlorothiazide
Pause home medications: metformin 
Daily lab draw to assess clearance of infection
Will continue to monitor 


Disclaimer: this note was generated with the assistance of InferenceMD, an AI tool utilized in data collection, analysis and diagnostic support. 
